Sleepy essay.

There are many different sleeping cycles, but most of people knows only about one or two of them. The majority of us get used to sleep for 7-9 hours once a day, but is it the best approach? The goal of this paper is to highlight rest of them and to provide own experience of using. For a start Monophasic and Biphasic cycles will be briefly described, after that polyphasic cycles like everyman, dymaxion and uberman will be considered, at the end own usage experience will be shared.

Two most general and simplest sleeping approaches are familiar for all of us. It is a mophasic cycle(7-9 hours at night), which habitual for people around the world and bephasic(5-6 hours at night and 1.5 hours day nap), which more usual for warm countries like Greec, Spain, etc. Such sleeping pattern established by people and because of fact that human stupidity is infinite it may be wrong idea to follow them. The majority of mammals uses polyphasic patterns, meaning that they sleep in portions throughout the day.

Polyphasic cycles, dividing sleep into small parts, allows to decrease sleeping time to 2-4.5 hours per day. Easiest one is everyman, which consist of a 3.5 hour spell of core sleep and three 20 minutes naps spread out across the day. Next one is uberman, which consist of six 20 minutes naps uniformly distributed across twenty-fours hours. And the hardest one to adopt is dymaxion, which consist of four 30 minutes naps.

As for me, I tried only monophasic, biphasic and everyman cycles. Last one is pretty good for me, because I feel myself freshly and full of energy. But it was two issues that I faced. First one is connected to schedule. If you miss or move your nap you will feel like a zombie. Other one is connected to sport. Hard trains and small amount of sleep will make you feel terrible. After study session and competition season I want to try uberman cycle to free more time for hobbies and education and to improve my discipline.

As a conclusion it's necessary to say that worth at least try one of pholyphasic cycles. Be careful, you can waste your time and ability to work for an adopting period. Worth mentioning fact that you need very strong discipline and motivation to became Uberman.
