
Predicting human behaviour by tweets.

Computer science is very unusual kind of art. It's very young, based on exact science(math), uses engineering approaches and allows you to create whatever you want. There is near no restrictions and infinite number of resources. The only thing that limits you is a lack of knowledge and creativity. I have a wide range of interests(from martial arts to various researches). The most impressive discovers occur on the intersection of different fields and that's why I want to tell you about predicting human behaviour using social networks. This issue affects many areas such as natural language processing, graph theory, machine learning, psychology.

First of all it's important to say that I'm very rational person and it's natural for me explaining everything strictly(in terms of math or with help of other science). Human behaviour isn't an exception. Today it's possible to explain and even predict it. Humankind have gathered enough data and knowledge to do such things.

Secondly I'm very excited by the works of greatest minds of our planet. They invented so much beautiful things. One of the most impressive is clojure programming language that helps you describing pure mathematical ideas. It changes the structure of your mind, forces you think in different way and shows you alternative solutions that have been hidden in depth of you. Second is Apache Spark. It is an open source computing framework originally developed at University of California, Berkley. It uses MapReduce paradigm, but differs from other frameworks because store all information in-memory that significantly improves speed. It also changes the structure of your thinking and allows you using the power of distributed computer system that can help you to have a deal with really big amount of data. Last but not least technology is GraphX. It's a distributed graph processing framework on top of Spark. It provides API for expressing graph computation.

Thirdly I wanted to understand the reasons for actions of different peoples. There were situations in which I could not get causes of the person. Since I think that everything can be explained I started watching people. After I got more data and knowledge I understood many of situations and sometimes worked to figure out next step. I played in checkers a lot(about 12 years) and the desire to predict next move is also very natural for me. In recent years, I have realized that easiest way to get information about someone is to get it from social networks. After that I learned that people already know how to predict behaviour of set of people. I think in few years amount of available information will increase significantly and it will be possible to predict more precisely.

Today I learn a lot about areas that mentioned below. I spend hours reading research papers, after I try to implement some of ideas which were obtained. Sometimes new ideas emerge and I try to express them in terms of program language. It is very challenging task to find good idea, but if implementation showed that idea is useful it is necessary to scale it, because single laptop is too week to process real dataset. If all previous steps are successful you will get a lot of endorphin.

As a conclusion, I like to hack not only computer programs, but people too, that is why I am so interested in distributed systems, natural language processing and social network analysis. In few years it will be available much more information to work with and it will be possible to extract more useful knowledge from it. I study in university at the faculty of computer science, work at social network analysis lab, have worked at most advanced datascience company in my country. In next semester I plan to go to the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology to continue improving my datascience and communication skills. Area of interests nearly completely determine my life and I think that is very good.
